Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming
to you from the QI offices in Covert Garden.
My name is Dan Schreiber and I am sitting here with Andrew Hunter Murray, Anna Chazinski,
and James Harkin, and once again we have gathered around the microphones with our four favorite
facts from the last seven days and in no particular order, here we go.
Starting with you, Andy.
My fact is that it's very hard for scientists to spot Armadillo's having sex because Armadillo's
have sex while running. How fast do they run? Too fast to see them.
They would show up on film and in photos, but it's just a mating habit that they have,
so whenever the Armadillo female is in heat, she may also start chasing her, but then she
starts running away, so it's all the matter of the fastest Armadillo who can catch up
with her, but she doesn't stop running when he's caught up.
So they engage in sex, mid-like passing a baton on to her, it's baton, disgusting baton.
Dan, in relays, did you support onto the baton all the way around?
No, but he used to hold onto the penis of the guy in front of him.
Well, we got there quite quickly, didn't we?
Yeah, it's amazing because they look like little battery-operated toys because the
female is just running along and you can't really see their legs moving and the male
mounts the female, but he then has to run along only on his hind legs while he's mounted
her.
Wow. Like a wheelbarrow race, I don't think so.
Your spot's day must have been awful.
It's this all Armadillo's because there's quite a lot of different types in there.
I'm not sure. This was only observed in one species, so I don't think we can say for sure.
Or I certainly can't.
Do you know, is it the nine, which one?
I think it's the nine.
The nine.
Oh, the nine.
It's amazing.
I mean, it's the full name is the nine-banded Armadillo, to be fair, I'm not sure anyone's
ever called it the nine before, but I'm sorry.
Oh, I really hope it's not.
I'm going to check though.
Sure.
But yeah, presumably they don't massively like it because they generally don't like each
other to the Armadillos.
They're very solitary.
That's true.
Yeah, because the women, the female Armadillos are always kind of, I was going to say, beating
off, but they're trying to get the male away, aren't they?
Yeah.
Most of the time, until they're on heat and then they kind of accept it a little better.
They're running away.
That's true.
It is a bit like the Benny Hill show.
Yes.
Yeah.
So the nine-banded Armadillo, if that's who we are talking about.
The nine.
Yeah.
Don't always have nine.
Did I know?
Sometimes have seven or eleven.
Yeah.
I think that's just a mean average that they have.
That's a mean average you got there.
It's the six.
No.
I'm sorry.
This is the six-banded Armadillo.
Okay.
Is that because the one you generally hear about is the nine-banded, isn't it, which is
the one that lives in...
Like, that's the one when people talk about Armadillos.
It tends to be the nine-banded Armadillo, because that's the only one that lives in North
America.
It's true, although...
Maybe we could talk about nine-banded Armadillos.
The one that kind of goes into a ball is the three-banded Armadillo.
Yeah.
All the three, as we call it.
All three.
Yeah.
There are 20 species of Armadillo, and only two can roll themselves up.
Who swizzed?
Indeed.
The favorite Armadillo, and this is the Armadillo I'm mainly read into, is the...
Which one is it, guys?
Who is it?
The three?
The 29.
No, my favorite Armadillo is the Pink Fairy Armadillo, and they are so amazing.
Get up a picture of a Pink Fairy Armadillo while you're listening to the rest of this.
I'm for the rest of your life.
They're the cutest thing I've ever seen, so they're the smallest kind.
They're six inches long.
They've got pink shell.
This little pink shell, like baby pink, a fluffy white belly.
And they're just so cute, and they've got these massive front claws, which are almost a
bit grotesque, because they're only for digging, so they can't really walk properly.
They can only dig, but yeah, they can bury themselves in a couple of seconds, so if something
comes along, their shells are actually useless.
In most Armadillos, they're not very good protection of the shells, but they just bury
themselves immediately.
And yeah, they are so cute.
And they're really fluffy.
They sound like Pokemon.
Yeah.
They've got fluffy belly.
They are a bit like Pokemon.
They're very soft-shelled, and their shell is pink because they use it for thermoregulation,
so they can pump loads of blood to it, and that just gets rid of all the excess heat in
their body.
Right.
And they've got a bump plate when they're digging, when they're digging through the earth.
They have a little bump plate, which just compacts all the earth behind them.
So that means that it creates like a really strong burrow, doesn't it?
And also it means that they get the earth out of their face, so they can breathe.
It's got a square bump, basically, and it bumps up against the earth to compact it, like
you would with a spade if you batched a spade on it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And the opposite of that, have we ever talked about the glypsodon, which was the prehistoric
Armadillo?
Which was so big that humans used its shells for shelters.
Whoa!
What?
So we lived inside the shell.
Oh my God.
This is pretty amazing.
And it had like a, it was about the size of a car.
What?
And it had like a club tail that it would bash humans with.
My Lord.
Yeah, no, I would do that, as well as when I was living inside my shell.
I think that-
Do you think they took the Armadillo out first?
Okay.
I think death took it out first, and then it was just-
I don't know, actually.
That is incredible.
Okay, today living inside your car is seen as a sign of someone who's down in your luck.
Do you think in the old days living inside an Armadillo shell was the same thing?
Oh, he's living inside his Armadillo shell.
He's had a rough time.
I like it.
Have we ever lived in a shell outside of that?
I can't think of an example of another animal where-
That's so cool.
That's good.
Yeah.
You always find the most weird angles on the except-
I mean, probably not.
Wow.
The first instance of humans living in shells-
It's so cool.
Yeah.
Can I take us back to the nine for a second?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
So they have a really interesting-
This is just- I was looking into the sex life of the Armadillo off the back of your fact,
Andy.
So nine, the nine, has quadruplets every single time.
Every single time they have a baby.
So the baby basically splits a single fertilized egg, but it splits it so that they're effectively
clones of each other.
Yeah.
Those of them do it, but I think most Armadillos might have quadruplets every time.
Wow.
Yeah.
But because they're identical, it's to prevent, inbreeding, is that right?
Or prevent, incest?
An accidental.
But how would that prevent it if they're all-
Well, if all four quads that you have are males, then they would be able to agree with each
other at least.
Got it.
Yeah.
And the nine band did is the state small mammal of Texas-
Is it?
Was it a large one?
It's-
I didn't write it down.
It does have one.
It's a kind of deer or something.
Okay.
So there's a state small mammal of Texas.
There's a state large mammal.
There's a state flying mammal, which is a kind of bat.
And there's also a state welk.
I didn't even know there was more than one kind of welk.
Everyone's state welk is the same.
Something that's very cool about Armadillos is that they have two ways of crossing water
and both are equally groovy.
So they-
They try more, Nana.
They inflate their stomach and intestines with air if they want to float.
So they fancy looking at the view and then they just float across the water or they can deflate
themselves and sink right down to the bottom and then they just walk along the bottom using
their claws.
And they can hold their breath a bit of fantastic menace.
So cool.
That's amazing.
Do you think they have races like where one-
Of course they do.
Yeah.
It's like when there's two escalators in the tube going up, you always go one on each so
that you can see who goes quickest.
Do you?
No.
I thought there was usually one up and one down otherwise how does everyone get down the
stairs?
So there's often three in tubes and there's always two going up and one going down and that's
because people coming down they come at a regular amount of time but people going up they
all come off the train at the same time so there's more people at the same time.
That's really interesting.
Well.
I think that's really interesting.
That makes more sense.
I thought it was for rush hour when you know if there are loads of people going into
the station, like at the end of the day you'll have two, mate you might have two going down
because you would occasionally do that but almost always they have two going up.
A whole lot of sense.
Have we talked about the leprosy thing?
No.
No, but you should get that checked out.
So they got the disease from humans.
We know that.
So this is Hansen's disease as you're supposed to call it but most people call it leprosy.
Exactly.
So they're native to the new world, the Americas.
So when humans first arrived we know that they brought over leprosy, Hansen's disease with
them at some point but as a result they're really good at carrying it because their body temperature
is 34 degrees Celsius on the inside and the leprosy bacterium loves that temperature.
It's ideal for it.
We're actually not ideal for the 37 or something now but for some reason, they live in our skin
the bacteria which is a bit cooler so they can survive there.
So a lot of people eat armadillo in Brazil but unfortunately 60% of the armadillos in the
forest have it and it's okay as long as you cook it all the way through but some people
have the liver raw so you can get leprosy that way or some people keep them in their homes
to fathom them up and obviously the more close contact you have with an armadillo the
more likely you are.
And actually most humans are immune to leprosy.
That's true.
But the ones that aren't.
You're bugging.
Yeah.
So I think the lesson is I mean I was always taught you can eat rare steak and rare lamb
but don't eat rare chicken and rare armadillo.
I think that's what you have to take away from this isn't it?
Armadillo shells can rebound bullets.
People have found out in America to their detriment which I find.
It seems like most people are basically okay but yeah in 2015 a man was taken to hospital
with injuries when he was working up by armadillos and a bit of a pest in America because they
destroyed gardens.
He was working up at 3am so he went and shot the armadillo and the bullet rebounded in
him in the face.
He was okay.
He survived.
Yeah.
How was the armadillo?
They don't know about the armadillo.
They don't know afterwards.
Oh.
Well that implies it survived at least.
It walked away.
No it could have ricocheted away into another garden.
That's true.
I don't know if that's how armadillos work.
You're thinking when you jump on a turtle in Super Mario and they go skating away.
I was thinking of that.
Yeah.
I thought so.
The walking underwater thing with the armadillo feels a bit risky to me.
I would.
Would you?
Would you do the floating though because it feels like with the floating you're kind
of at the risk of currents and stuff like that.
And predators.
You're much more exposed.
Well they can only hold their breath for six minutes.
So I guess if you want to escape a predator you could quickly deflate and sink to the bottom.
But as long as you're never more than three minutes away from the edge of the river.
I guess you just have to know though.
That's the problem.
That's the river.
And you get to a big rock underwater.
And you got to take a detour to see.
There is a scene just like a submission of possible five.
It's them.
Yeah there is.
So.
Are you sure that's the five?
I thought that was the nine.
Okay.
It is time for fact number two and that is James.
Okay my fat this week is that the car why people of New Guinea put grubs in their ears to
eat their earwax.
So great.
And then what do they put in their ear to eat the grubs?
A cow.
Do they put it in?
That's going right to the end.
Yeah.
So yeah this is a thing.
These are a tribe from New Guinea.
There's lots of interesting stuff about them but one thing that a lot of people learned in
the last year or so was there was a TV show on BBC2 called My Year with the Tribe.
presenter Will Millard.
Let a grub crawl into his ear and eat his earwax in this documentary which everyone thought
was a bit weird.
Yeah.
But didn't the tribe have the courage to say at the time that the elders used to do this?
We don't really do it anymore so we've forgotten how it's done but shove it in and see what
happens.
Maybe it's one of those things that you just get foreigners in and you just make the
do stuff and say that it's traditional.
Is there a way of getting it out though?
It just slivers out itself apparently and it's slightly darker in colour having eaten
all your earwax.
Wow.
That's quite cool.
And he said he could hear it eating it inside his ear couldn't he?
It was like I can hear it munching away and that would be the spot that you would get the
very access to hearing.
I mean that doesn't surprise me.
Yeah he's a, I've really like Will Millard I realise of course researching this.
He's a lot of very cool stuff but yeah he went to Papua and lived with those people for
a few months I think but he had an extremely bad time he seems to have very bad luck and
he's actually got PTSD now from being basically doing all these documentaries in these extreme
places.
And one of the points in Papua he said I made a serious error of judgement that saw me
not on an ancient intertribal trade route but trapped deep within a 400 mile square of uninhabited
snake infested and extremely hostile forest.
We crawled out a month later elacerated and covered in infections but yet he's had cerebral
malaria, he's been you know assaulted, he's been robbed at Bowen Arrow Point.
Yeah.
Which is kind of a cool life experience.
It's become the trauma.
I thought it was a different programme wasn't it but the beef got in a bit of trouble because
the worldwide traditionally live in tree houses and the beef made a show program all about
the building the tree houses and then it turned out that they'd sort of said can you build
as a tree house for this programme?
Well that was Will Millard who discovered it.
Oh really?
That was when he went back and did this programme and they said when those last BBC see guys
came they told us to build that tree house and he was the one who said well that's not
on.
I'm going to mention the trade.
Wow right.
But so is it a myth?
It's not a myth that they'd live in tree houses.
No they do.
So I don't think that's that bad to ask them to build the tree house.
Some of them, no.
Those ones did not live in tree houses like that.
They said we would never build tree houses that high.
Right.
Got it.
Some of them live on the ground but some of them I think still live in tree houses.
There are about 4,000 worldwide people alive.
Yeah.
There aren't very many of them.
So there were rumours that the worldwide people sometimes engaged in cannibalism but they
got asked about it and they said no we would never eat a person.
What we would eat is a cacqua which is a witch who takes the form of a person.
Yeah.
And this doesn't happen anymore but 10 years ago it was in living memory so it happened
a few decades ago.
And the basically...
A decade in fact.
Oh.
Yeah.
But the cacqua is basically their version of germ theory.
So they like when someone dies they say what's this because germ theory is not very well
known they assumed it was a witch.
So when a clan member was dying he would whisper to his relatives the name of who he thought
was the witch who had killed him.
It's such a good way to take out someone who just kind of been pissing you out for a while.
I think this is a great deathbed practice we should adopt but then it's very much open
to abuse isn't it from the person who heard the whisper, the only person who heard
the whisper.
Yeah.
That's true.
But this is, I mean I think there were quite a lot of worldwide spread around in different
groups of worldwide and there was a guy Paul Raphael who famously went there in 2006 and
he went very deep in and he met one who was still a famous cacqua killer who showed him
a skull and stuff and ate the skull in front of him and yeah so who knows apparently it
tastes like, he asked what it, what human flesh tastes like and it tastes like cassowari.
Okay so everyone wanted it so now you can picture it.
I've got something on earwax but I don't know if you guys have heard of it or a way stuff.
In the middle ages earwax was used to colour manuscript in.
Cool.
Yeah or to colour the ink used for manuscript in part.
I was going to say for the ink yeah.
Yeah it was partly earwax.
Wow.
Partly stale beer.
What do you mean they mix the ink up with an earwax as one of the ingredients?
Yeah.
Cool.
Yeah so some of those ancient beautiful documents will be partly earwax, monk earwax
probably.
Yeah.
That's the worst.
Interesting you say about beer and earwax.
We read once when we were researching for QI that if you put earwax in someone's beer then
all the froth will disappear from the top of the beer and we tried to do it as an experiment
on the show but it didn't work.
But it did enhance the taste.
I don't think anyone actually drank it in the end.
Who's earwax did you go?
I can't remember.
Yeah.
I probably produce a pair of fletcher's earwax.
But yeah we did try it but the idea is because it's got oil in, isn't it?
And the idea is that oil would kind of pop the bubbles a little bit.
I think so.
I think that monks did too.
I don't think they did.
Did they?
I thought they were dead beer.
They sort of, well when they were painting the manuscripts it was the way they prevented bubbles
from forming in the liquid was called was called it was called glare which was these
to make the paints.
Right.
Supposedly to stop the froth forming on the glare they put their earwax out of that.
So was earwax sort of a lucrative business to be in if you generated a lot.
It's huge.
It must be a traded thing right?
You know I'm writing a book at the moment.
I'm not sure it must be.
I think everyone has already supplied up.
Well some people, you can't corner the market in earwax though.
No you could even most productive earwax.
I guess you could go house to house collecting people's earwax.
Yeah.
I've been selling a jar of it because they had gong farmers didn't they who would collect
people's poo for you know for fertiliser and stuff and everyone has a plentiful supply
of that.
Yeah.
You might as well get earwax at the same time you're saying.
I wonder where socially the gong farmer done collector and the earwax collector are next
to each other.
I think they have Christmas parties together.
Yeah.
There's no one else invites them.
We could have traded earwax though with the far east because they've got different earwax
to us, don't they?
I don't know.
But East Asian countries, so in China and Japan, Korea, the gene has changed so their earwax
is kind of powdery and I think doesn't taste as gross.
So well because it's like powder in it doesn't have the bitterness that arse hasn't.
It's not as gloopy with vast majority.
But who's taste?
Is that a thing?
No I've actually just assumed that because I've read about it and it doesn't contain the
stuff that makes arse.
It makes sense, isn't it?
No it makes sense.
I've found it like that was a thing that people taste.
You know how like some people eat their buggers?
No but you know sometimes when you put your finger in your ear and you accidentally put
your finger in your mouth and it's absolutely right.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
They don't have that.
You know when you accidentally put your finger in someone from East Asia's earwax, we put
that in your mouth, yes.
Where will these?
I'm not allowed back to Korea.
Well there were people who tasted your earwax.
There were doctors in ancient Greece.
That was the whole theory because it was all about the theory of the humours, you know the
different substances that made up your body.
So Hippocrates said there were particular tastes for bodily fluids.
So he would taste your earwax, your doctor, and he might lick your vomit or run his fingers
through your flim to check the consistency.
So he probably got up close.
That's so cool.
It's so unromantic.
He ran his fingers through her flim.
Do you know what's the most common thing, the most common living thing to get in your ear?
Earwig.
You would have thought, but they don't seem to do it as much.
An ant.
Larger in fact.
A spider.
Spider.
No, I'm going to let you know.
A spider.
Giant armadillo.
Please don't.
Is it a nine?
It's a three.
It's got me three.
The very little, the pink fairy.
The pink fairy.
I love banded cockroaches.
It's just a cockroach.
Cockroaches love ears.
Oh my god.
And yeah, and that's by far the most common creature to go in your ear.
And it's because they've got this thing, and I'd never heard of this word.
They've got positive thigmataxis.
And thigmataxis describes how much you like the stimulus of touch.
So some animals will have negative thigmataxis, so they don't want to be touched.
And cockroaches want their whole body to be touched all the time.
So they're so needy, aren't they?
They're so clingy.
They love a massage.
Full body massage every single time, never just the shoulders.
But that's where they love ears.
So they go in because they like being in tiny little nooks and crannies.
And that's why they'll always squeeze into little cracks in your house.
And also they quite like the fatty acids.
Do any of us know someone who's found the cockroach in there?
I don't.
And none of my friends has told me.
Does anyone know anyone who's found anything in there yet?
It's still not as common as the common cold.
And also we don't really have cockroaches in this country very much.
Do you not?
Not as much.
No, we don't, Dan, person who's lived here for about 14 years.
I thought I had reported turvites the other day, and my house turns out they're not in
England.
What?
The guy in the photo was like, that's fascinating.
I'll be over as soon as possible.
I was like, wow, he was keen.
They were flying ants.
Oh my God.
He just says.
I read on a BBC source that some of the earliest lit bombs were made of earwax.
Like, I don't believe it.
I regret mentioning it now.
Oh, thanks for bringing it to me.
Are they saying ancient Egyptians and stuff like that?
Yeah.
But I just, it would taste better.
But what if they were Asian earwax?
Doesn't that taste fantastic?
No, that's dry and crumbly.
So that does taste fantastic.
You've taken the wrong thing from out there.
It does feel like someone's open to tub of calmex.
Thought that looks a lot like earwax.
Here's a room out.
I don't need to know.
I read that in bits of Asia, so India and China.
Your picking is seen as a nice pampering thing to do, really enjoyable.
So so much to the point where you can have it done on the side of streets.
There's vendors.
And so luxurious.
You can get it done on the side.
Yeah.
And so there's such demand.
It's a career.
Yeah.
It's a dying career, though.
Because young people are more attractive.
Or they're on their phones.
They don't want to have their ears picked by a stranger.
In the public.
You can be on your phone and have your earpicks at the same time.
Yeah.
That's right.
It's one of the few things you can do.
People at once on two different phones.
Sure.
I forgot you could use phones to phone people.
But it's true that they have this whole set of picks, don't they?
Yeah.
Is there a cleaning guy on their spoon at home?
Do you?
Yeah, yeah.
And it lights up.
So you can see inside the ear when you're picking stuff.
But you can't.
What does ever mirror?
No, no, you do it for other people.
Like you've said, it's like, yeah, yeah.
But I don't use it, by the way.
It's a spot.
It's a career.
But the thing is that cotton buds are being banned in the UK.
So there's every chance of the year spoon or the roving ear cleaner could make a comeback.
Post Brexit.
No smart phones, but here's your roving ear cleaner.
Thanks Boris.
Okay, it is time for fact number three.
And that is my fact.
My fact this week is that the biggest single biomedical laboratory in Europe designed to
encourage scientists to chat more to each other is so noisy that scientists are actually
complaining it's too hard to concentrate.
This is an amazing building that's up in London.
It's in the Houston area.
And it is it's ginormous.
It's it's 1,250 people work there.
They're collaborating from different fields of medicine.
And it's the Francis Quick Institute, isn't it?
That's right.
It's called the Francis Quick Institute or it's nickname.
So it's run the head of it is Sir Paul Nurse who is a Nobel Prize winning scientist.
So it's nickname is Sir Paul's Cathedral, which is quite a cool name.
Yeah.
And he had influence over the design, didn't he?
And he said that he wanted the atmosphere to encourage a gentle sort of anarchy.
So yeah, you don't necessarily want the scientists to talk to each other all the time, I suppose
is what we're saying.
Sometimes you just need to be quiet in a test tube, right?
Yeah.
I suppose the problem is it's not in a test tube, sorry, unless you're a test tube, baby.
Yes.
Then stay in your test tube.
I think there's a difference between creating an atmosphere where people are there to work
and collaborate as well as creating a sort of cafe like atmosphere where people just come
because they know that that's where their buddies are going to be.
So I think a lot of people are distracted when they're trying to do quiet work on an idea
by PhD students coming in who've just graduated or so on and having parties without
groups, not without actually having the party but effectively grouped.
Yeah.
And this is not everyone who's complaining.
It's working incredibly well.
Yeah.
It's not.
It's not failed.
It's literally one dude.
Do you know what's underneath it?
Underneath the...
Underneath the France's Cric building, it's around about where Boudica was buried, supposedly.
Oh, well, she's been joined, actually.
Is it plague?
The Boudica plague, probably some plague, sure.
And also, so it's obviously named after Francis Cric and his son, Mike, is still alive.
And he donated Cric's California license plate into a time capsule which is buried underneath
the building.
So the ceremony, they buried it.
Yeah.
Is there a reason for that?
I don't know.
The license plate number was ATGC.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
So those are the four letters that make up DNA.
So that's what that is.
Ah.
That's so clever.
ATGNC.
Yeah.
That's cool.
So that's underneath there.
Which is what Cric did.
Which...
Ah!
This is all coming together.
Was it golden?
No.
What's in Cric?
Cric and Watson, as we tend to say, for some reason, Rosalind Franklin.
Rosalind Franklin, who's been left out of the history, but for Pete Best of the DNA.
Yeah.
If Pete Best had secretly written all the Beatles songs.
It's coming to my theory, Pete Best.
So this thing, is it all about open plan, basically?
Yeah.
It's an open plan office.
To an extent, if you look inside, it's obviously got levels.
But it's one of those ones where it all looks down into a big courtyard of desks and everything
seems to be open.
Yeah.
Because open plan is very...
It's kind of controversial now, right?
In fact, I think most studies show that it's a negative thing, has a negative impact
on work.
Really?
And it's very trendy, but I get really confused because people talk about open plan as if it's
like a trendy cool thing.
And it seems so obvious to me, surely, the reason we have open plan, and it's generally
in Britain and America, is just a hell of a lot cheaper.
Saves money on walls.
It just saves a hell of a lot of money.
You can squash way more people in.
I think we should stop pretending we're doing it for the good of our employees, for bonding
and stuff, and be like, "Sorry, guys, we're cheap."
Yeah, we have...
How many rooms do we have in this building?
We have four.
We should have a maximum of four members of staff here.
At any one time, we should all get a room each.
That's what they have in places like Germany and Scandinavia.
Everyone will have a room.
Really?
Because that's a better way to work.
Well, the person who invented cubicles, he was called Robert Props, and he thought that
it would be like a dynamic.
Everyone would have that area, and it would be really dynamic, and you could move around
it, and it would be really good for work.
But of course, what happened was, companies just made them smaller and smaller and smaller
until it was the smallest amount that one person could work in, and then obviously it had
the upset effect.
Yeah.
A friend of mine, their office is being relocated completely to a new place that is going to be this
open plan layout, but they're taking it a step further now, where no one will have an
assigned desk.
It will be...
A hot desk.
And the theory behind that is that the idea is that's going to encourage more work, because
you want to get to work as early as possible to find a good seat next to an influential person,
because everyone of every level is going to be sitting around this same desk.
So if you want to get next to the boss, close to them, you arrive at 830 in the morning.
But what if the boss doesn't come until 10?
It's the whole thing's a risk.
You've got to work out the rhythm, see when they arrive, all that sort of stuff.
But in theory, that's...
Why we just hide in the toilets, watching the office, and waiting for the boss to arrive.
But then lots of people hide in the toilets.
More toilets.
Everyone's just going to be following the boss in a way, like a holly out of Delo.
I'd never heard that as a justification for hot desking, because everyone always claims
that's a good thing, hot desking, and you don't have too much your own.
It is more efficient.
Because you always do have a couple of people in a big office.
You'll have ex-people who don't turn up or who are ill or who are travelling for business
or whatever.
So, you know, there is a...
But it's risky because people leave food on their desk or people leave mugs.
Leave books, don't they?
Yeah.
Personal items.
Why are you looking at Dan?
Why are you looking at me?
No reason.
So, Anna, you know how you stand up at your desk quite a lot?
Yeah.
That, according to a study, office workers could lose half a stone a year by standing up
at their desks.
That's what I'm actually in minus weight now.
I'm in minus two's turn.
If I just stood up for the last 12 years that I'd been working at QI, I would now weigh
about eight stone.
I imagine that's how that works.
Yeah.
So, I was looking up distraction and concentration and things like that.
So, when you're concentrating or when you think you're concentrating, it turns out
that if you look at your brain activity, you're actually distracted quite a lot.
So, in between bursts of attention, attention is the study described as a search light that
sort of shines on the thing you're reading or the thing you're studying and then shines
away again just to see if there's anything more important or dangerous going on that you
need to know about.
So, how often do you guess that happens that the brain sort of scans the area and see?
Every three minutes.
Okay.
Okay, 45 seconds.
It's four times a second.
Four times a second.
Is that one of the, you're not getting the elephant done?
I'm not like, I totally phased out while you were explaining, brilliant, brilliant, genuinely.
Yeah.
To be fair, he was scanning for danger.
Four times a second, no.
No.
Yes, and your brain, basically, alters your perception to make you think it's a constant
movie of you just focusing on one thing.
Four times a second, your brain sort of temporarily takes its attention away its scan.
This wouldn't get any further.
This is, it happens.
Yeah, it's cool, right?
It's weird.
Okay, so each of these scanaways, they must be an absolute micro-millionaire.
Yeah, it's short.
It's not, it doesn't take a quarter of a second, four times a second, but it's just like
breathe, blink.
No, it's not like that.
I wish you hadn't zoned out while I was just saying the thing.
I'm not going to go back and say it.
I'll go with it.
Yeah.
That I had never heard.
I thought it was super cool.
Have we mentioned this before?
We mentioned the special feces studying lab in the Soviet Union.
Hello.
So this is, in the 1940s, the USSR developed a secret lab, a studying world leaders poo.
What?
It was to find out stuff about them.
And the justification that people have made, have backdated to it, is that we didn't really
have CCTV or other ways of watching people, so we collected their poo instead.
And this is genuinely someone found this out a couple of years ago, going through these old
archives.
And Beria, Stalin, sort of right-hand man, Beria was in charge of it.
And it was a special department.
And for instance, in 1949, they had special toilets installed for mal when he came and visited.
And they weren't connected to the sewers.
They were connected to boxes underneath his loo, which they then collected and they went
through it.
And it was like, if you found certain things like apparently, if you found amino acid,
a trip to fan, it meant they were calm and approachable.
And perhaps you could do a deal with them.
And the theory was, if there wasn't very much potassium in their poo, then they had a lack
of sleep and might be a bit stressed, a bit techy.
Give them a banana.
Give them a bloody banana, and they won't impress the red button.
But we know now that people are still doing this, right?
So Kim Jong-un did that during the Singapore summit this year, brought his own Tyler.
To eat.
For exactly the same reason.
Was that so they couldn't steal his poo and study it, yeah?
Yes, yes.
So he would have taken all of that back to North Korea when he left.
Lucky them.
Because bizarre.
Yeah.
But then we now know that there's a historical justification for it.
I always thought it was them just being paranoid, but I think it is them being paranoid.
Is it?
Oh, no.
Although, no, you're right.
We know that they were doing it.
And we know, now I bet you can learn way more from someone's work.
Yeah.
If there's a house guest visiting my place, I'm not ashamed to say, oh, I'll analyse.
I do think you should be ashamed to say that.
[LAUGHTER]
Why do you keep giving me bananas whenever I come around?
OK, it's time for our final fact of the show, and that is Chazinski.
My fact this week is that the largest sunflower farm in Ontario has been forced to shut because
so many people were taking selfies there.
And this is a really funny story.
It's from this summer.
The farm is called Bogle Seeds Farm.
It's in a place called Hamilton.
And it's absolutely massive.
They were 1.6 million sunflower plants over 68 acres.
They thought it would be quite a good idea to make a bit of extra cash.
Changed people some dollars by saying, you can come here, park up in this little car park.
We've got, take a selfie, here you go.
And it went mad.
They were completely swamped.
Thousands and thousands of people came.
There was four kilometres of stationary traffic backed up on the road leading there.
There was a 300 car parking lot.
And at any one time, there were 7,000 cars trying to park in it.
And it just turned into complete chaos.
They trashed the place.
And so they had to shut it.
People were cutting off the tops of sunflowers.
Someone said that one person urinated on one of the neighbor's bushes.
It was bad.
The pictures did look quite cool.
Didn't they?
The pictures look really nice.
Sunflowers are still pretty.
They are.
Yeah.
Lovely photos of people weeing and fighting and smashing their cars.
On Instagram, that's not what the photos were.
They were just nice pictures of people with sunflowers.
That's true.
And it's your single weir.
Apparently, people brought ladders to this place.
So you can go into the field and then climb up a ladder.
So you can be poking out above the top of the sunflowers, which I think is quite clever.
And also, maybe just because they're so tall sunflowers, I can't believe how high they
can get.
They just want to get to the top.
The largest that we have on record, this is a Guinness World Record, it's 30 feet in
one inch.
I can't.
That can't have been a happy sunflower, though.
Why?
Because it would be quite stressed, wouldn't it?
Self-conscious.
Yeah.
Every time I hand it, it's much shorter.
Think about that.
But you're sure you would...
They must grow to get more light.
And if they need more light, they must be stressed, right?
That's in...
Yeah.
So, for instance, forleaf clovers, they only grow if they're stressed forleaves, because they
need an extra leaf to get more light and more energy.
No.
Did not.
So usually when a plant does something weird, it's because they're stressed out.
So now, whenever we find a forleaf clover, we have to go, "Oh, that's so sad."
Rather than thinking it's good enough.
That's what I always do.
Oh, God.
It's such a killjoy.
30 feet.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, that's...
It's so difficult.
How did you grow?
You planted at the bottom of a well.
Well, this is a guy who's managed to top his own record a few years in a row.
So he's...
It's just a girl.
I mean, do you have to have it trellis to something?
They're quite strong.
Yeah, really strong.
They're really strong.
Well, he's got some flowers that were super tall and they didn't have any.
Really?
But not 30 feet tall.
I should just say that the, sorry, the reaction of the bogal seed farmers was negative
to this chaos.
So just to conclude the story, because you should really go on their website.
So they closed down the farm.
They said, we're not having anyone else here this year, although they are still selling
seeds.
But no one can come anymore.
And you should go to the website because it's so aggressive.
They've got about seven different notices saying, so they say, unfortunately, with the police
involved, you know, all lots of capitals.
They have to call the police.
We've had to close the photo opportunities due to traffic jams, et cetera.
There's a big one of those running banners that you get on slightly mad people's websites
that's, like, in capital letters, closed for the season.
Wow.
I mean, they sort of ask people to come.
Yeah.
And then lots of people came.
They didn't know how popular they'd be.
It's not the people's fault for coming.
It's not any individual person's fault.
It's the individual urinator in the bushes.
Yeah.
Or the people who are cutting tops off.
I think I can blame those people.
And they do say, now they've still got people coming who will, like, swear and abuse them
and say, no, I've driven four hours to get here.
Oh, you've got to let me check the website before you go.
Check the website, guys.
So, some flowers are massive in Russia, in every sense of the word.
So they're from America originally, some flowers, and then they were brought over to Europe.
And in the 18th century, they were really popular in Russia, because you were banned from
consuming oil during Lent, but you weren't banned from consuming sunflower oil, loophole.
Because they didn't know it existed back in the day when they wrote the rules.
Yeah.
So, it's just an absolute get-around, and you could, you know, use the oil for food or
for light, or for whatever it might be.
Yeah.
So the Russians used to have massive sunflower fields.
Well, they still do.
The two biggest producers of sunflower oil are Russia and Ukraine, which means that tensions
between those two countries have affected the world's supply of sunflower oil.
Oh, wow, really?
Yeah.
God, I didn't know how I felt about that battle, but now I'm really anti, because sunflower
oils are useful, I think, to have around, isn't it?
Yeah.
And about the fact that sunflowers are used in nuclear, apocalyptic sites, basically.
So Fukushima, for example, part of the process of trying to clear a radiation was to plant
millions and millions of sunflowers, because they soak up the radiation.
And this was a thing that was employed in Chernobyl as well.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Lots of planting.
And it's many, it's many different flowers and field mustard.
I must admit, I read that, and I thought it probably wasn't true, because it's the obvious
thing to put in, isn't it?
Sunflowers, it's light, it's energy, it feels like a kind of a folk remedy to that, doesn't
it?
Yes.
But then it's 100% free, isn't it?
No, they have.
Yeah, they have studied it.
They have hyperacumulators, which take up heavy metals from soil.
Do you know who's a big fan of sunflowers?
Huge fan.
Oh, it gives a clue.
My wife.
Really?
Yeah.
That wasn't going to...
Well, it's someone very similar to your wife, actually.
Oh, um, I've got a lot of people here.
No, it's a summer bin Laden.
Oh, yeah.
I thought she reminds me a bit.
She's tall.
Yeah, exactly.
She's not big.
She's an American.
Yeah, he had a passion for them, apparently, going to his wife, he loved growing, he always
grew them, he loved growing the biggest sunflowers in his village.
Do you know what's ironic about sunflowers?
A summer bin Laden loved them.
Is it that they come out at night?
Oh, that's good.
What?
Where do they hide?
No, I'm guessing.
Oh, right.
That would be ironic.
If there's sunflowers in the bin Laden.
They hate the sun.
They love the sun.
They fall around all over the place.
None of that.
No.
It's that they're the only flower with the word flower in their name, but they're not a
flower.
They're not a flower.
No.
What?
They are thousands of flowers.
So each sunflower is actually thousands of little flowers.
The definition of a flower is obviously like, you know, the bit that has the reproductive
organs.
And on the sunflower, the bits that are the, called the disc florets.
So if you follow the big yellow petals down, you then get all these little circular bits.
Yeah, yeah.
A bit more brown.
Yes, exactly.
The bit more brown bits.
They have male and female reproductive organs, each one of those.
So each little petal with a disparate attached is a flower.
Wow.
So every time we see a sunflower now, we should call it a sunflowers.
Exactly.
Yeah, I will do that from now on.
I know.
You actually will, aren't you?
I won't.
As you're eating your penino.
What technically then is it?
It's a group of flowers.
A group of flowers.
That is going to be absolutely.
That's going to save me a lot of money.
It's going to be able to say darling, I've got you two thousand sunflowers.
Hey, I've got another ironic thing about something.
Sunflowers.
Yeah.
This is about Van Gogh or Van Ruch.
So he never sold any of his sunflower portraits.
I think he painted about 11 and he never sold a single one in his lifetime.
And yet now, the one that the National Gallery in London has won, and they sell more postcards
of that than of any other picture they've got.
When you go to the National Gallery, they say no taking photos, but actually since 2014,
they've lifted the ban on selfies and taking photos because they realized they just couldn't
regulate it.
So if they saw someone with a phone out, most people, they couldn't tell if they were googling
something, texting or whether or not they were about to use it to take a sneaky photo.
So they do know that certain flashes and so on do actually affect paintings, but they've
only with a few specific paintings said now that is illegal to take a selfie with.
But that's also ironic that a place with hundreds of self-portraits stops you from taking
a self-portrait.
Yeah.
Apart from they don't anyone.
They don't.
They use to the irony used to exist and it now does not.
That's the right thing about the sunflowers.
The painting is wilting, all the Van Gogh's sunflowers are going brown, very slowly.
As in, because the ink is, yeah, because he used paint which degrades under light.
Although great news is not yet visible to the human eye, so I'm pretty stopped panicking.
Wow.
So the painting of sunflowers doesn't like the light.
Brilliant.
Love it.
He's special.
Past and present irony, especially, yeah.
Yeah.
But they've analysed the chemicals and they know which, because they use different pigments
for different bits of the painting and one of the pigments is going to steadily get brown.
Hey.
Yeah.
Well, that's fitting, isn't it?
Because they all die eventually.
As do we all.
And I think that's the point you were trying to make when he used that chemical.
Yep.
He was another man with great foresight.
Do you know the optimal distance that was to take a photo of your face?
Is it arm's length?
Sadly, it's not.
So that's why everyone looks hideous and selfies and they should all stop doing them.
So five feet is the best distance for a portrait.
That's the one that's the length that doesn't distort your facial features.
Well, you know what that is about the length of an arm's length and the selfie stick.
Yeah.
It's about the length of a giant armadillo.
Yeah, but selfie sticks are more easily gotten.
Well, I wouldn't hate someone carrying around a giant armadillo quite as much as that.
Hang on.
All the tourists in Covet Garden were walking around with giant armadillos, you would soon get sick of it.
But no, selfies make your face look 30% faster, 30% wider than it is, don't they?
Because they're too close up.
Right.
So Kim Kardashian, she takes love selfies.
Yeah.
And she seems to look normal in them.
Does she have an extremely thin face in me?
Yeah.
I don't know.
It's like a freak.
Actually, weirdly, Finella was showing me last night a picture of Kim Kardashian when she was 14
versus now to show the facial difference and her note, she looks like she's had a lot of
the work done that would make her selfie look right.
Well, she's the professional person who needs to look good, I'm not surprised.
Oh, yeah.
Suggesting that Kim Kardashian has had work done.
I can't tell you how thrilled I am.
This podcast is ended up with us discussing Kim Kardashian's percential plastic surgery.
And so I got another Kim Kardashian factor.
And that is that she's been warned by doctors to stop taking selfies after a painful wrist
injury.
Oh, he genuinely had one.
Apparently, she's got RSI because she's taken so many selfies.
Really?
Doesn't she have any mates who will take a photo of her?
It's a selfie.
You got to do a...
Well, you can just call it a photograph.
I've got a word for the other one.
It's all about the angles.
She released a book called Selfie, which was literally 500 selfies.
That was the whole book.
You loved it.
Absolutely loved it.
I've got a selfie factor, which is that in Ohio, there was a man who was wanted by the police.
And his name was Donald A. Chip Pugh.
He was wanted by the Lima police in Ohio.
And so they put a picture...
Hang on.
Hey, they're looking at the wrong place.
Yeah.
There's a county called Lima.
How do I remember?
The animal, the Lima police.
The most adorable police in the whole country.
Yeah, so they released a photo of him, which they said, "Have you seen this guy please
get in contact?"
And someone who got in contact was Donald himself, who did not like the photo that they
were using.
So he sent him an updated selfie of him sitting in a car with sunglasses on, looking like
he's cool.
And they ended up using that photo as well, sending a message saying, "This photo was
sent to us by Mr. Pugh himself.
We thank him for being helpful, but now we'd appreciate it if he would come to speak to us
about his charges."
But yeah, they actually use his...
Do we know what happened at the end?
No, I haven't found an update.
Are we sure you didn't just send him a picture of somebody else and think, "Oh, he's
gone away with that one."
Okay, that's it.
That is all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said over
the course of this podcast, we can be found on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on @Sriberland, James, @JamesHarkin, Andy @AndruhunterM, and Chazinski.
You can email podcasts@QI.com.
Yep, or you can go to our group account, which is @nosuchthing, our Facebook page, which
is no such thing as a fish or a website.
No such thing as a fish.com.
So on there, we have all of our previous episodes.
We have links to any upcoming tours that we're doing.
You can get tickets through there.
You can listen to all the previous episodes.
And we also have this behind-the-scenes documentary made behind-the-gill.
So we are going on tour again.
If you want to see what it looks like when we're on tour at the behind-the-scenes stuff as
well as some of the front-of-stage stuff, it'll give you an idea of what it's like.
So go download that.
We'll be back again next week.
We'll see you then.
Goodbye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(upbeat music)
[MUSIC]